Now if you build a wall around yourself,
your team may not gain from your experience and this can
undermine problem solving and decision making.
Being connected can be a major factor for your success.
The more connected you are,
the better you can understand what motivates members of your team
and analyze what's really going on and find solutions that meet the
needs of your people and your company.
With the walking around technique you can increase the
following attributes and capabilities of your team.
The first, approachability.
When your staff sees you as a person and not just a boss,
they'll be more likely to tell you things about what's going on and you'll get
the chance to learn about issues before they become problems.
Trust.
We've talked about that several times.
Trust is so important.
As your team gets to know you better, they'll trust you more.
You'll be naturally inclined to share more information and that
will break down barriers to communication.
Business knowledge.
Getting out and learning what's happening on a daily basis can give you a
better understanding of the functions and processes around you.
Accountability.
When you interact daily with your team,
agreements you make with each other are much more likely to be completed.
Everyone is more motivated to follow through because you
are seeing each other on a regular basis.
Morale.
People often feel better about their jobs and their organization
when they have opportunities to be heard and the walking around
makes these opportunities available.
Now they may be heard at a certain level,
maybe in a presentation form or in a meeting form or in a stand-up form,
but this approach gives a little more of a personal
side and a private side to things.
Lastly, productivity.
Many creative ideas come from casual exchanges.
Walking around promotes casual discussions so people may be more free to
discuss things that come to their mind and exchange new ideas.
Now this activity will not only support your team's connection with you,
but also your connections to your team.
It's a two-way street and a very rewarding feeling.
All healthy humans need to connect with others.
Alright, let's talk a little bit about the process.
Now here is a suggested process.
Okay, walk-arounds create great opportunities for communication.
You and the team will benefit by you literally walking around.
Alright, again, your casual and impromptu visits,
you know maybe just 3 minutes on the way to lunch or to a break,
you know just seek if you can catch someone in their office.
Now if you can, visit or talk with each team member maybe every day if you can,
with each customer maybe once a week.
A little impromptu with a customer works great as well; get their
feedback on what's going on in a casual setting.
Maybe a key stakeholder, maybe twice a month and with your manager,
of course, if you can, each day.
Now that's a lot of walking around so you'll want to manage it the best you can,
but also, if someone is remote, the drop-in can be a casual phone call.
Hey, how are you doing?
What's up?
Real quick, 2 or 3 minutes.
Alright, the walk-around again is to be spontaneous,
adhoc and flexible in creating a new communication platform for you to use,
but it isn't to say you couldn't just drop into someone's office and say,
hey,
let's grab a quick lunch in the cafeteria and let's talk
more about your ideas on e-commerce, or something like that.
Alright, here's a tip.
Be careful not to be disruptive.
Now you want to temper that.
How many times do you do it, you know if they're deep in thought,
maybe keep passing and go to the next cube,
and things like that.
So you know, you don't just go down the aisle one after another either.
It should be random, impromptu,
almost like just a natural behavior you're going to
incorporate into your daily leadership processes.
Alright, now let's see a literal example of what I mean.
Here is a simple example.
Here is a scenario.
One of your team members is under the weather,
maybe not feeling that great, so I might make a mental note,
hey I want to make a point to do a walk-around and try
to include her on my next visit.
Here is my action then, on the way back from the kitchen to get coffee,
I pop into her cubicle.
Hey, how are you?
Are you feeling better, I say?
Oh hi, yes, a little better, thanks, Harper says.
What's on your plate today?
Well, I'm a little behind since I left work early yesterday and ummm.
No worries.
If you need any help, please come see me.
Thanks, I will.
Now this took about 2 minutes, maybe not even that and what are the benefits?
Did you see them?
Let's recap the benefits.
Alright, since I stopped, I showed interest.
I showed I cared about her wellbeing.
I showed that I was interested in her work for the day.
And lastly, I showed that I'm here to help.
All these things are great benefits.
Look at all the great benefits from that simple walk-in and how
that person would now feel after that short visit. Now let's take a look at some rules of thumb for the walk-arounds.